This page is just a text dump of the on-line documentation, provided
for convenience.  The authoritative and up-to-date documentation is at
http://www.multiscalelab.org/utilities/PlumedCVTool .



****************



   Link: Start
   Link: Alternate: Wiki Markup
   Link: Alternate: Print View
   Link: Appendix: cvs.png
   Link: Appendix: driver.exe
   Link: Appendix: driver_safe
   Link: Appendix: patch-pdbparser
   Link: Appendix: screenshotmultiplot.png
   Link: Appendix: screenshotnc.png
   Link: Appendix: screenshotplumedcollect.png
   Link: Appendix: screenshotpreparerefere.png
   Link: Appendix: screenshotrama.png
   Link: Appendix: vmd_plumed.tgz
   Link: Search
   Link: Index
   Link: Glossary
   Link: Help
     * utilities
     * PlumedCVTool

    A Plumed collective variable analysis tool for VMD (Plumed-GUI, v 1.901)

   To use this plugin, you will need PLUMED's driver executable. Download it
   from the 'installation' section below

   The PLUMED-GUI collective variable analysis tool is a plugin for the
   Visual Molecular Dynamics (VMD) software that provides access to the
   extensive set of collective variables (CV) defined in the PLUMED software.
   It allows you to:
     * analyze the currently loaded trajectory by evaluating and plotting
       arbitrary CVs
     * use VMD's atom selection keywords to define atom groups and ready-made
       templates for common CVs
     * export the CV definition file for use in MD simulations
     * prepare reference files for RMSD, path-variable, native contacts, etc.
     * analyze DCD files in batches

   Please check that you have the latest version installed.

   The plugin supports both Plumed 1.3 and Plumed 2.0, which is still
   unreleased.

Usage

   The usage of the plugin is straightforward.
    1. From VMD's main window, select "Extensions > Analysis > Collective
       variable analysis (PLUMED)"
    2. Edit the CV definition file, defining one or more CVs
    3. Enter the number of CVs defined in the corresponding box (this will be
       fixed in a future PLUMED release)
    4. Click "Plot". This will open a plot window with the selected CVs.

   Square brackets can be used to conveniently define atom groups (Ctrl-G).
   During evaluation, atom selection keywords in square brackets are replaced
   with a list of the corresponding serial numbers for the top molecule.

   When Plot is clicked, the currently loaded trajectory is exported to a
   temporary directory (shown in the console), and the driver utility is
   invoked. If there are no errors, a plot will show the CVs evaluated on the
   frames of the current trajectory.

   Troubleshooting: In case of errors, the console will provide diagnostics
   and the location of the temporary directory where computations are run.
   Common sources of error are:
     * Hills deposition should be disabled.
     * Improperly set periodic boundary conditions, especially when dealing
       with non-wrapped solvent or with MD engines which "break" molecules by
       wrapping them.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

The File menu

   CV definition files can be opened, edited and saved as usual. Save and
   Save as... save the currently open file verbatim, while the Export...
   function performs the atom selection replacements (see below), thus
   creating a META_INP file that can be used directly in simulations.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Edit menu

   The Edit menu provides the usual cut-copy-paste text-editing options.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Templates menu

   Elements in the Templates menu provides shortcuts for most CVs supported
   by PLUMED. Please refer to PLUMED's user's guide for the full syntax.

   The Electrostatic energy and Dipole CVs require charges to be defined in
   the currently loaded molecule, so AMBER or CHARMM topology file have to be
   loaded beforehand.

   Structure files (used for RMSD, Z_PATH, S_PATH, etc.) must be referenced
   by absolute pathname.

   The template menu does not hold the full list of the CVs implemented in
   PLUMED, but all of them will work anyway when typed in.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Structure menu

   The Structure menu provides functions for entering complex CVs.

  Reference structures for RMSD and path variables

   The Structure>Prepare reference structure... dialog can be used to prepare
   pseudo-PDB files that can be used as reference structures for RMSD,
   path-variables, etc. Two VMD atom selections are required to define the
   set of atoms that will be used for alignment (alignment set) and for the
   distance measurement (displacement set), respectively. The currently
   selected frame of the top molecule is used to create a reference file;
   numbering can be altered to conform to another molecule. The file format
   is specified in the 'Path collective variables' section of the PLUMED
   manual.

   Notes:
     * After generating the structures, remember to set the top molecule to
       the one you want to analyze.
     * Structures must be referenced by absolute pathname in the PLUMED
       script.
     * The RMSD keyword has been renamed to MSD in PLUMED 1.3.

  Native contacts

   The Structure>Native contacts CV inserts a native-contacts CV. The
   currently selected frame of the top molecule is taken as the native state.
   Atom numbers are adapted to fit the structure indicated in the target
   molecule field. If selection 2 is given, only intermolecular contacts
   (between selection 1 and 2) are counted. Otherwise, contacts internal in
   selection 1 are considered. The Distance cutoff selects the radius to
   consider contacts in the native state. If only one selection is given,
   contacts can be filtered with the D resid option (see description in RMSD
   trajectory tool enhanced with native contacts). Group name specifies the
   label for two atom lists (that will be placed at the top of the plumed
   file). Note: After generating the CV lines, remember to set the top
   molecule to the one you want to analyze.

  Backbone torsion CVs

   A list of f, q, and w Ramachandran angles can be inserted for an atom
   selection. Note that N-CA-C atom names are assumed for backbone atoms.
   Dihedrals involving atoms outside the selection are not added. The w angle
   is intended between residue i and i+1.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Screenshot

   User interface:

   screenshotplumedcollect.png

   attachment:screenshotmultiplot.png attachment:cvs.png
   attachment:screenshotpreparerefere.png

   attachment:screenshotnc.png attachment:screenshotrama.png

Installation

   The plugin is being updated. In the meantime, please use the version
   included in VMD.

   Plumed driver. The plugin requires that you have PLUMED's driver utility
   (LGPL) in your path.
     * Windows the easiest is to download the pre-compiled binary for Win32
       (version 1.3) and copy it e.g. in c:\windows. Users willing to compile
       the plugin can follow the windows build instructions.
     * Linux users can download the code from PLUMED home page and build it
       following the instructions.

   If the executable is not in the path (not recommended), its location can
   be specified in the "Path to executable" box.

   Upgrades. VMD versions 1.9.0 is distributed with PLUMED GUI v0.9. If you
   want to upgrade, download the plugin and follow the installation
   instructions in the archive.

License

   By downloading the software you agree to comply with the terms of the
   3-clause BSD license.

   In any publication resulting from the use of Plumed-GUI, you are kindly
   requested to cite the following paper (in addition to other possibly
   relevant Plumed citations).
     * Toni Giorgino, Plumed-GUI: an environment for the interactive
       development of molecular dynamics analysis and biasing scripts
       (submitted)

   Author: Toni Giorgino

Acknowledgments

   Work partially supported by the Generalitat de Catalunya.

   http://img191.imageshack.us/img191/496/vphlogo.png
